src/pages/blog/posts/20240314-astro.md, before:

---
layout: '../../../layouts/Post.astro'
title: 'Rewriting my website in Astro'
pubDate: 2024-03-14
description: "I'm rewriting my website using the Astro framework, and I have something to say about it"
tags: ['website', 'meta']
---
It's been a week since I started rewriting my personal website in Astro. I have to say it, I'm really enjoying this framework. But it's not been a smooth experience, here's some thoughts about it.

## History

Let's start from the beginning, this is my fourth time writing my website (giopan.dev v4, if you will). Here's a quick summary of the previuos versions:
1) Static HTML/CSS
2) NextJS 
3) Laravel
4) Astro, this one

### The first version

The static version was hosted on a CPanel website I used to have, my very first public web server. It was... something. It was really easy to use and configure, for a static website, but if you wanted to have something more, it was a nightmare. I tried writing some PHP, but you couldn't use any Composer package and I always occur on some strange configuration bug (probably caused by my inexperience).

### The second version

Some time passed and I discovered the magic world of NodeJS and NextJS, and that's when I decided to rewrite my portfolio. I also decided to rent a server on Akamai (former Linode, [here's a referral link](https://www.linode.com/lp/refer/?r=fec6c841e31eace9ea4c41dcab083b09c75eddba) that will give you 100$ credit for 60 days :wink: :wink:), this version worked fine... until I tried to deploy more websites in the same VPS and the RAM usage spiked to 90%. Nice, NodeJS at its finest.

### The third verison

The third version was the longer lived one, I discovered Laravel and I wanted to experiment with it, so v3 arrived. I had fun and all but, a Laravel website that just have 2 pages and a blog, with a custom authentication system, a MySQL backend AND Redis for caching "just in case"... Yeah pretty overkill.

But this website had something truly beautiful: you could visit the website from curl and view a terminal friendly version of the website. Every page had a text version viewable with curl and every page of the blog it just returned the markdown version. Doing this was fairly easy, I had a laravel middleware that read the `User-Agent` HTTP header and handled the request accordingly. Honestly, it was amazing ahah. I had some issues with the view caching of Laravel but I quickly resolved it.

## The present
- Sometimes types goes to sleep and doesn't recognize new types of files
- beautiful and well made documentation

Commit message:

feat (blog): updated astro post

src/pages/blog/posts/20240314-astro.md, after:

---
layout: '../../../layouts/Post.astro'
title: 'Rewriting my website in Astro'
pubDate: 2024-03-14
description: "I'm rewriting my website using the Astro framework, and I have something to say about it"
tags: ['website', 'meta']
---
It's been a week since I started rewriting my personal website in Astro. I have to say it, I'm really enjoying this framework. But it's not been a smooth experience, here's some thoughts about it.

## History

Let's start from the beginning, this is my fourth time writing my website (giopan.dev v4, if you will). Here's a quick summary of the previuos versions:
1) Static HTML/CSS
2) NextJS 
3) Laravel
4) Astro, this one

### The first version

The static version was hosted on a CPanel website I used to have, my very first public web server. It was... something. It was really easy to use and configure, for a static website, but if you wanted to have something more, it was a nightmare. I tried writing some PHP, but you couldn't use any Composer package and I always occur on some strange configuration bug (probably caused by my inexperience).

### The second version

Some time passed and I discovered the magic world of NodeJS and NextJS, and that's when I decided to rewrite my portfolio. I also decided to rent a server on Akamai (former Linode, [here's a referral link](https://www.linode.com/lp/refer/?r=fec6c841e31eace9ea4c41dcab083b09c75eddba) that will give you 100$ credit for 60 days :wink: :wink:), this version worked fine... until I tried to deploy more websites in the same VPS and the RAM usage spiked to 90%. Nice, NodeJS at its finest.

### The third verison

The third version was the longer lived one, I discovered Laravel and I wanted to experiment with it, so v3 arrived. I had fun and all but, a Laravel website that just have 2 pages and a blog, with a custom authentication system, a MySQL backend AND Redis for caching "just in case"... Yeah pretty overkill.

But this website had something truly beautiful: you could visit the website with curl and view a terminal friendly version of the website. If you visited a post page it returned the markdown version and every other page had a text version + some decoration using bash formatting. Doing this was fairly easy, I had a laravel middleware that read the `User-Agent` HTTP header and handled the request accordingly. Honestly, it was amazing. I had some issues with the view caching of Laravel but I quickly resolved it.

## The present
The first time I heard about Astro was about a year ago, but I was too in love with Laravel and so I ignored it. A week ago I wanted to add a post to my blog, but I got annoyed by the complexity of my own website, and so I said fuck it, I'm going to rewrite the whole website, once again.

![Meme: I am once again rewriting my website in a different framework](../../../images/blog/20240314-astro/meme.jpg)

I don't know where the idea of using Astro came from, but after a week of using it I can say that it was truly a great idea.

### Pros
- Their documentation it's one of the best I've seen so far. Every functionality it's well exaplained and common utilities includes well made tutorials. I never had to exit the documentation to understand how to do something, it's all there. Great work Astro team! 

### Cons
I don't know how to explain it, but it looks like that the extension sometimes "dies" or "goes to sleep" (if you will): 
 - New files are never auto discovered and I have to write the path to the import manually
 - Sometimes the type of the `Astro` object is lost and it's shown as `any`
